How do we know what to wear?
What are the resources?
If you're presenting in front of another company,
call your contact at that company
and ask them what you should wear,
or send them a text,
or check out what people wear on their website
or just search glassdoor.com if it's applicable.
Sometimes LinkedIn profile pictures work as well.
If you can, check to see if someone's wearing
a tie in their pictures on LinkedIn.
Doesn't always work.
Actually this is important.
If you're close to getting promoted
and you're presenting at your company
I want you to dress a bit like the person or people
at the level above you.
Because I want people to think of you
as being on the next level.
It's kind of like when you're in an interview for a job.
If you can prove to them you can already do the job
then that's how you get hired, that sort of thing.
Separately,
if in doubt overdress,
meaning wear a tie.
When you arrive ask somebody at the security desk
or someone that works at the company
if a tie is needed and if not take it off.
The people at the security desk are always very cool.
I find that, this is off topic a bit,
in companies I've worked for a couple of big ones,
the assistants are so awesome to get to know
because they're cool and they also know how the game works.
They understand the culture
and they can help you a lot.
Let's move on.
Make sure that you iron your clothes
or use that steamer thing I showed you, the day before.
I made the mistake once of ironing, years ago
my shirt at a hotel a half hour before I presented.
Never ever put on a shirt ironed
right after you iron it or it won't stay ironed.
Moving on.
Shoes are important as well.
They have to match your belt
and they have to match your shirt if applicable as well.
Not in all cases.
Again, make sure that your shoe bottoms are soft
so that when you walk on the stage
people don't just focus on the noise you're making.
If you have issues with your fashion sense
which I clearly do, except my hats are cool.
Then ask your parents or your significant other
or even a salesperson at a clothing store to help you out.
But be careful because they all work
on commission or they might.
We spend all this time looking great at our wedding
which is the most important day of our life
or one of the most important days.
Your speech day is a close second in terms of importance
because one speech can change your life.
Please spend a lot of time
picking the perfect clothes to wear.
Just be careful.
Don't wear this either.
Don't dress like that.
Sorry I must have seen this movie, Dumb and Dumber
at least ten times, I know every line.
Hi I'm seven, man-child.
If you're presenting in another country
please ask somebody familiar with the culture
what colors to wear and what not to wear.
There's certain colors that are offensive.
I think that the least offensive color
at least for fonts when I'm presenting,
I researched this,
it's online so it's true,
I read it online it's true,
is the color blue, blue is okay.
Do your research.
Bring backup shirts, et cetera in case.
Hang your jacket in your car if you're driving there.
Don't put it on until you arrive at the location.
Wear layers just in case
the presentation room is too hot or too cold.
If they're gonna put a wireless microphone on your chest
don't wear jewelry that makes too much noise.